----------------------------------------------------------------------
TWO-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------
2FA is two factor-authentication. You use it since attackers may get your login credentials. 2FA is based on the model that passwords are something you know so 2FA must be something you have. Something you have may include mobile or desktops apps that generate passcodes, email access, USB keys, or a phone with SMS. Don’t ever use SMS two-factor authentication if you can. It’s the least secure. If you’re the average user, and odds are you are, email 2FA is just as bad. Unless you engage in Project Device PerSec or already have a separate email account only used for 2FA, you likely engage in some unsafe habits that makes the email option a bad idea. For example, we already know that if a thief gets your phone that they have a great chance of owning your data. This is worse if you use 2FA on your phone with SMS, an email account that you have set up on the phone, or an app that uses TOTP like Google Authenticator. TOTP means time-based one-time password. Never put your more essential email accounts on your phone and try to use encrypted email and text services. These will be explained in SYSSEC under Mobile and NETSEC under Email. If you’re going to use any of the 2FA options available, be very careful about how to manage and maintain your options.

GOOGLE AUTHENTICATOR -------------------------------------------------
Google Authenticator is a mobile-only app for Android, iOS, and Blackberry that uses TOTP and HOTP. You store your login credentials in the app so it can generate 6- or 8-digit passcodes every 10 seconds. It’s got a lot of support, but it’s main flaw is that it’s always running. If your phone is stolen and the thief bypasses the phone’s lock, then they can access the passcodes generated by the app. At this point, it’s a good idea to invest in some sort of phone-wiping service (it’s a good idea regardless). If you don’t want to engage with this gaping vulnerability, there are other services. Another drawback is that it’s device limited. If you lose your phone, you’re screwed. This may seem like a good idea since the information is only in one spot, but it’s the type of issue that can keep you locked out of your services. Case in point, when you soft brick your Android phone and you have to reinstall your custom ROM, you can’t just sign into Google if you were using Google Authenticator for your 2FA. This is why 1) Google makes sure you have at least 2FA options selected if you have 2FA enabled and 2) why it’s a good idea to back up your apps and app data. This will be covered in SYSSEC under Mobile. Unless you’re going to maintain a separate mobile device for security-only use or use some form of virtualization on your laptop or desktop to run one of the mobile OSes, it’s unwise to use Google Authenticator, especially without back-ups.

AUTHY ----------------------------------------------------------------
Authy is more versatile than Google Authenticator for security services and is business-oriented as much as user-oriented. It’s a mobile and desktop app for Android, iOS, and Google Chrome on OS X, Windows, and Linux. It uses 7-digit TOTP to generate passcodes every 20 seconds. Its support is also very wide and in can integrate Google Authenticator tokens through QR code scanning. In order to use it, you have to sign up for an account, which can be free or premium. Unlike Google Authenticator, if you lose your phone or computer, you can still have access to the 2FA codes generated since Authy backs up your credentials with encryption. There are some drawbacks. First, you have to have an account. That’s an additional vulnerability you don’t need and an additional account you have to manage. Second, it backs up your data. You have to take it on faith that the data is properly encrypted, that Authy is a secure service, and that Authy isn’t selling your data let alone viewing it. That’s a lot of trust needed. Last, the free version conducts less than 100 authentications a month. Since Authy is based on AWS, the premium accounts are used to pay for the AWS usage and is the reason why Authy’s free version is so limited. 

YUBICO AUTHENICATOR & OTHER YUBICO SERVICES --------------------------
This one is my personal favorite and requires a one-time purchase of a Yubikey Neo for $50 or any other Yubikey if you don’t plan on using the Android app or want NFC support. It’s dependent on you owning a Yubikey, which is a 2FA physical key that connects to USB ports. It’s support and versatility is as wide as LastPass, but not as easy to use. One use for it is storing a password into the Yubikey so that entering it into a USB port and clicking the key enters the passwords and executes the function of the ‘Enter’ key. The Yubico Authenticator app for Android is built right on top of Google Authenticator without the crippling issues of storing your credentials within the app and without constantly running. Instead, it only runs when activated by a Yubikey and the credentials for 2FA are stored within the Yubikey itself. This in of itself is another drawback. In case you lose the key, you’re screwed. Yubico explicitly states to treat Yubikeys like actual keys. Buy a spare and keep it hidden just in case of emergencies. However, another upside is the repetition of its versatility. I’ve programmed mine very easily to be a smart device for my Android phone so I can unlock my phone with a full password or the Yubikey. I’ve also set my phone with an additional pin for when a thief tries to break into my phone with the Yubikey, but this will be covered in SYSSEC under Mobile. One of the other great aspects is that it’s a local security measure since it’s physical hardware, is encrypted so it can’t be easily cracked and tweaked or have the stored data stolen, and is recognized by computers as a keyboard making in even harder to tweak by attackers. 
I use a Yubikey Neo for my 2FA and, like the previously mentioned services, does come with its own drawbacks. One of which is knowing what you’re doing. Apart from the Android version, the iOS and desktop versions involve some work. Unlike Authy, the desktop options are actual desktop options and not a browser app. The Android version is as easy as installing it from the Google Play Store or F-Droid. The iOS version of the app is the oddest with needing a browser, a specific Yubico URL, and an Apple Camera Connection Kit. The desktop versions require too much work to simply explain, but you will end up installing more than just the app. While the desktop and iOS version can use any Yubikey, the Android version needs Yubikey Neo since it’s the only version that supports NFC. Other USB 2FA options include Nitrokey and Swekey, but I haven’t tested either.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

