----------------------------------------------------------------------
EMAIL
----------------------------------------------------------------------
I advise against using email for the most part, but too many services require some form of email during set-up. They’re inherently insecure like wireless networking, especially any using IMAP, POP, and SNMP. Don’t think using email services from different countries will not still be traced back to you post Snowden Revelations. Privacytools.io has some naivety in their description of not using VPNs hosted in any of the 14 Eyes countries thinking 1) that US or any other 14 Eyes country will mean VPN data is unsafe and 2) that other countries can’t be “hacked” or made to give up their data. Unless your data is in Iceland or Switzerland, your data is just as accessible across the globe and even Iceland and Switzerland aren’t impenetrable or incorruptible. 
If you’re going to use email services that aren’t especially made for encryption, you’ll want to use GnuPG or PGP and Enigmail (Firefox) or Mailvelope (Chromium / Chrome) to send encrypted messages. This is far from easy and even hardcore crypto users find it annoying, myself included. It’s still effective, but it’s neither an easy-to-use email encryption type or an easy-to-learn email encryption type. I recommend email services that were made to be encrypted instead. However, there’s one large caveat. The previously mentioned methods of email encryption have you decrypt private keys locally. These easier-to-use methods due to server-side. It’s up to you if you want extreme security at extreme inconvenience or great security at great convenience.

PROTONMAIL -----------------------------------------------------------
ProtonMail is a Switzerland-based, end-to-end encrypted email service originally created at CERN (same birthplace as the web) that’s been advertised with Mr. Robot, offers mailbox encryption on top of email encryption, is easy to use with a sleek design, includes free and premium tiers, has open-source encryption, and has browser, iOS, and Android support. After logging in to your account, you’re made to decrypt the mailbox that only you can access, which offer an additional layer of security, especially if your login credentials got nabbed. Unfortunately, it doesn’t offer 2FA yet, but it is in development. There’s a lot of requests for it to add email client support with IMAP, POP, and SNMP, but that’s a terrible idea. Those services aren’t secure and many web-based encryption email services ignore them so user email is actually secure. It would be the equivalent of having a perfectly secure home system and network set-up, but then you use an iPhone as your smartphone. 
The free version includes up to 500MB of storage, 1 address (unless you signed up during beta like me where you get a .ch domain with .com), up to 150 messages sent a day, and 20 labels. The other tiers can be customized with up to 20GB storage, 10 custom domains, 50 addresses, 1,000 messages sent a day, 200 labels, and full support from $48 to $288 annually. You can set up a recovery email, which would also be the email address if you use email notifications to notify another email account you have unread mail. This makes ProtonMail the perfect email service to have multiple accounts with a separate email service like Tutanota to act as a hub (notification) account. You have the options to display photos manually (photos have been used in email to spread malware), to create whitelist, blacklist, and spam filters, to have basic, advanced, or no login logs that can be downloaded, appearance customization with custom CSS support too, and payment options that allow credit cards (think disposable), PayPal, and Bitcoins. It doesn’t have the means to instantly import Gmail emails or export own emails yet, but they’re always trying to add more services. Let’s hope an email client is made one day.

TUTANOTA -------------------------------------------------------------
Tutanota is a Germany-based, end-to-end encrypted email service, that’s just as easy to use as ProtonMail without the mailbox encryption, sleek design, or filters. However, it does have browser, iOS, and Android support, free and premium tiers, and open-source encryption. Now, while it doesn’t offer mailbox encryption, it does offer something equally great. When Tutanota users email users of different email services, Tutanota does create an encrypted account to store emails for the recipient for just that encrypted connection. It’s like a relay mailbox that the unencrypted user can access via an email link so long as they have the password and view every single encrypted email sent to them by the sender with that password. It would be great if both services adopted both mailbox strategies. I would also say it’s easier to delete than ProtonMail making it the perfect encrypted email service to use when actual disposable services are blocked. What Tutanota offers is last successful login log with a counter of failed logins, filters including spam, device control, 1GB storage, custom domains, addresses, and storage with premium accounts, user management, and welcome message and logo design for premium users. The premium pricing ranges from $13.50 annually for additional users, 1GB storage per user, 5 addresses, custom domain support, more advanced inbox rules, and welcome message and logo customization to $675 annually for 1TB storage and the same premium additions. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------

