----------------------------------------------------------------------
PASSWORDS
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Passwords are important. Use strong passwords. To clarify, use long passwords without repeating clusters of characters. Complexity matters, but length matters more. Also, use unique usernames per account cluster (Project Device PerSec) and use unique passwords for all accounts across the board. Try to auto-generate passwords as long as possible with password managers. Some places have limits of 64 characters and other 16. You have to test it yourself. However, the shorter the password, the more frequently you should change them out. There is no formula for this and I doubt there ever will be since increasing computational power would directly affect frequency rate. The longer your password, the less often you need to change them. However, if you’re using a service that doesn’t salt the password hashes, you’re screwed either way. Every 30 to 90 days is a great policy for how often you should change your password. Bruce Schneier has a good article on the matter of password rotation frequency:
https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/11/changing_passwo.html
It’s hardly inconvenient if you’re using your password manager to generate these passwords, except pwd.sh (it may be great, effective, local, and transparent, but being forced to enter the master password with each change or access can be annoying). If you’re not using a password manager to maintain and generate your passwords, you need to adopt some type of password manager policy. Whatever the frequency, you can always automate the process in cron with zenity, but it’s your responsibility to research and test your notification capabilities. Cron will be discussed in SYSSEC under Automation. 

LAST PASS ------------------------------------------------------------
LastPass is the most talked about password manager online and I’ve held an account with them twice. However, I personally can’t stand a network option if I can use a local option that never touches the Internet. However, there’s no denying the greatness of LastPass as being the most versatile password manager yet. It’s password generator not only allows you to select the password length but the use of characters, how often a number appears, and whether or not every character type is required. It stores identity information for autofill services, conducts all AES 256 encryption and decryption on your computer, the encrypted information is salted before it leaves the computer (which was proven when an attacker successfully social engineered a few people and could not retrieve the logins), and they never receive the decryption key, unlike Microsoft with BitLocker (will be discussed later in chapter under Encryption). LastPass can be set to logoff when idle or after Chrome has been closed for so long, supports myriad account types, allows for autofill for password when on recognized site of stored data, allows encrypted notes, uses many forms of 2FA from Google Authenticator to Yubikeys and even includes its own 2FA system, generates security score on passwords and LastPass account, auto-changes passwords, allows offline connection, has cross-platform support on browsers, allows importing and exporting of passwords, and has more than one use for Yubikey. The premium accounts of an annual $12 includes unlimited device sync, shared family folder, priority tech support, even greater 2FA, and everything included on the free version. 2FA will be discussed shortly in next section of this chapter. LastPass also includes business accounts with even more features for companies to make use. The mobile app includes similar features for the phone to make password entry easier without having to type out all the characters on the phone’s keyboard. I highly recommend this service for the layperson and heavily advise against it for the paranoid. It might have proven to be secure, but it still involves a lot of trust. The password decryption aspect is hardly any different than a local password manager though. You’re screwed either way if your system has been infiltrated. 

1PASSWORD ------------------------------------------------------------
1Password is also a critically-acclaimed password manager. Unlike LastPass, it’s local, which makes it better even though it may not be as feature rich. It’s another trade-off of security and convenience. The difference between LastPass and 1Password is that it requires a monthly subscription of at least $5 or a one-time purchase of $65. Pricing depends on whether shared use up to 5 people for monthly subscription or single-user use for one-time purchase. While it may be a local password manager, it’s still requiring you to give PII online making it less than desirable. 
1Password families (subscription) works on Mac, Windows 10, browser, iOS, and Android, has 1GB encrypted document storage, allows unlimited passwords and stored information, includes full features, has own built-in syncing, has offline access, sharing and access control, web access, account recovery, always-up-to-date at no charge for new versions, and has one-on-one support. 
1Password (one-time purchase) works on Mac, Windows 7 and newer, browser, iOS, and Android, includes basic features with it-app purchase of full features, allows 3rd party cloud syncing, allows offline access, and has one-on-one support.
1Password also uses AES256 and Account Key 2FA for exponentially increased strength for the master password, encrypts data over servers, and is allegedly impossible to crack. It also uses WebCrypto and is transparent by documentation. Not a lot more can be said without signing up for a free trial or paying for the service. Like LastPass, it’s definitely worth researching and testing, especially for the whole family to use. 

PWD.SH ---------------------------------------------------------------
Pwd.sh is my personal favorite and only works on Linux currently. It’s CLI-based, uses GnuPG, is local, open-source, and completely transparent (not just by documentation but by code too). It has less than 250 lines of code and you, the user, can view it all. Unlike the other password managers, you know exactly what’s happening. It can be a pain not being a feature-rich with the previously mentioned password managers. I have to always enter the master password when creating, storing, reading, or deleting passwords whereas it’s optional in the other two for a single session. One typo and you have to start all over executing the script, entering the letter option you want, entering a username, and master password or whether you’re storing and creating a password, the password length, the username, and then the master password. You could modify your master password to use the Yubikey, but that means anyone that knows you use Yubikey for your master password, has access to it, and knows how to use Linux can own your information. Yubikey will be discussed in the next section of this chapter. It’s a script that’s best run with root, storing the script in the home directory, and never deleting or moving the pwd.sh.safe file out of the same directory as pwd.sh. It’s the file where all your passwords and usernames are stored. Pwd.sh allows you to create a password from 1 character to 100, can find the password with username entering any word used in the username, and is very simple to use. In regards to the username search, if you store a username that reads as, “John Doe Email Account,” you only have to enter any one word of that username for pwd.sh to retrieve it. This also means that if you use the same word with other usernames in pwd.sh, it will have retrieved them too. Let’s say you have, “Jane Doe Email Account,” too. Entering, “Doe,” Email,” and / or, “Account,” will retrieve both usernames and passwords. It makes for some interesting customization. The auto-generated passwords generally create enough special and numerical characters in proportion to the password length so you won’t see a lot of special characters. That makes it easier to crack. That said, it cannot retrieve certain usernames with certain special characters. I can’t access any, “SSH[ghost],” accounts because I used brackets so I have to search using, “SSH,” or the modifier for the specific account. I can’t use, “ghost,” because it’s between the brackets. Each username and password has to be filled in one at a time, is not quick to store information, and does not change the order of things just because you entered in a new password. It stores all usernames and passwords from oldest to newest. Unless you know how to use GnuPG, you cannot simply crack pwd.sh.safe to change the information. If you need to back up your information, back up the safe file itself.

SELF-CREATED SAFE ----------------------------------------------------
I used to use this with steganography before switching to AES Crypt, which will be further explained in this chapter under Encryption. Since pwd.sh cannot be used on Android and I may need to access my passwords on the phone, I created an encrypted txt file that’s stored my usernames and passwords. Just write everything neatly into txt file, use AES Crypt to create an encrypted copy, and delete the plaintext version. You just have to enter the password you entered for AES Crypt for it to create a cleartext copy that you can view or edit. If you make any changes, you have to create a new encrypted copy. Since Crypt4All is AES Crypt for Android, I can still access my passwords. This may not be as secure as pwd.sh so I’ve take the liberty of not only encrypting the file but the compressed folder in which it’s stored too. However, it does provide me with a back-up in case I can’t use pwd.sh for whatever reason and vice versa. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------

