----------------------------------------------------------------------
POPULAR LINUX
----------------------------------------------------------------------
This section is about the most popular Linux tree based on Debian. The RHEL tree is not included only because I don’t use it, but CentOS and RHEL are worth researching if you’re interested. Rolling releases means one version of a distro or operating can be installed on top of the other without deleting all of the data like how Windows has conducted updates since Windows 8. What a rolling release is a distro release that doesn’t greatly change from version to version since the packages are constantly updated. This can be a bad thing since constant package updates without a still system can lead to numerous errors. 

DEBIAN ---------------------------------------------------------------
Like Slackware and Red Hat, Debian is the mother of myriad Linux distros and the most popular of the three. In fact, the most popular Linux distro in existence, Ubuntu, is based on Debian, both of which do rolling releases. However, Debian doesn’t suffer the same system errors with rolling releases like Ubuntu since Debian developers have a solid, consistent testing plan. Debian uses the Gnome DE, or desktop environment, the apt, dpkg, and GDebi package managers, and is a very powerful, versatile Linux distro that’s been made to use for so many purposes. Let’s reiterate that many Linux distros are based on Debian. Its uses extend from PCs to network servers, has been adapted to the Raspberry Pi ecosystem as Raspbian, and has been called too difficult to install due to choosing functionality over simplicity by Linus Torvalds, the creator of the Linux Kernel that has taken the name of the GNU operating system as Linux. Thus, I don’t recommend it for any new user unless they realize how much they love Ubuntu or Linux Mint and want the raw power Debian offers that made it the mother of so many Linux distros. Picking up a copy of Debian Administrator’s Handbook isn’t just a great idea for Debian use but all Debian-based distros like most of the distros discussed in this chapter.

UBUNTU ---------------------------------------------------------------
Ubuntu is a Debian-based Linux distro with its own DE called Unity and is the most popular Linux distro in existence. It’s been adopted for multiple uses from a desktop distro to a cloud distro, a server distro, a tablet distro, a phone distro, a Raspberry Pi distro, a drone distro, and more. Ubuntu even used to have a cloud service called Ubuntu One. Over the past few years, Canonical, the developers of Ubuntu, have partnered with Amazon bringing a new store to Ubuntu as well as some invasive telemetry services and has created their own phone to rival Android and iOS. Ubuntu has an extensive community of documentation and users to answer questions asked and is heavily supported by that community and Canonical. They release updates every 6 months where every April of an even-numbered year is the LTS, or long-term support, version and the other three until the next even-numbered year are experimental versions. Even though I don’t use Ubuntu as any of my major systems, I will say that Ubuntu 12.04 LTS Precise Pangolin is still a very useful version of which I use in cases of emergencies that my Project USB UFDs would be of no use such as using boot repair. I’ve recently downloaded the 16.04 desktop and server versions to test, especially with the new Snaps apps container.

LINUX MINT -----------------------------------------------------------
Linux Mint is hands down easiest to install and use Linux distro I’ve seen yet and a have a TB repository of Linux distros I’ve tested. It’s definitely my most recommended distro for both new users and anyone needing to create a system in a hurry. It’s fairly difficult not to understand how to use with their elegant DE and it blows Ubuntu out of the water since the point of Ubuntu was also elegance with simplicity. Linux Mint is built on top of Ubuntu like Ubuntu is built on top of Debian. However, Linux Mint is like Ubuntu with less invasion from Amazon and Canonical through the use of lenses, less system errors, and a more elegant DE called Cinnamon that would appear familiar for Windows users. It does do updates like Ubuntu, but the developers have stopped trying to build experimental builds on top of the Ubuntu experimental builds due to major issues. Instead, as of 2014, Linux Mint has its own experiment builds and we’re do to see the Linux Mint 18 (LTS) version sometime soon. Linux Mint doesn’t do rolling releases either since doing so often leads to system errors like Ubuntu often experiences. It’s my current primary OS, but that’s because Qubes can work on my system with UEFI. It’s great for VMs and quick uses, but I’m ready to move on to Black Arch with the i3 WM, or windows manager. It does include some changes over Ubuntu such as mintInstall (software manager), mintUpdate (update manager), mintMenu (main menu), mintBackup (backup tool), mintUpload (upload manager), mintNanny (parental control domain blocker), and mintWelcome (an annoying welcome screen that you’ll want to uninstall soon enough). There’s also a Debian-based version that skips Ubuntu entirely, but I don’t recommend it like I don’t recommend Debian for new users.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

