----------------------------------------------------------------------
OTHER LINUX
----------------------------------------------------------------------
This section is about other notable Linux systems commonly used. Gentoo and OpenSUSE are not included because 1) I don’t use them and 2) they don’t have as much software support as other distros. I can’t say they’re worth researching, but they’re easy to find if you’re interested.

ARCH LINUX -----------------------------------------------------------
Arch Linux is far from a basic user Linux distro and will haunt you forever with the installation alone. I suggest becoming well experienced with other Linux distros first so you can get a feel for the terminal. However, this is still an OS worth noting to everyone. It’s a lightweight, transparent OS that you can build to be almost anything. It’s inspired by CRUX, but it’s not based on any other distro like most of the others mentioned in this chapter. While it may be insane to use without experience of the terminal, the entire point of Arch Linux is the application of the KISS principle, or “keep it simple, stupid,” with minimalism and simplicity. It’s one of the few operating systems so light-weight and diverse that it could be ran on a Raspberry Pi. Not even Debian can without a lightweight fork built specially for RPi. The good news is that it has even more documentation as ArchWiki than Ubuntu, but doesn’t have the same community of answering questions asked as Ubuntu. I suggest Black Arch over Arch Linux for three reasons: the installation process is a little easier, installing with FDE is as just easy as on any other Linux distro, and it comes preconfigured with penetration testing scripts you could use against your systems to test the system hardening and security configurations. 

QUBES OS -------------------------------------------------------------
Qubes OS is the new ‘it’ Linux system, especially in regards to security. It’s been called both the most secure Linux distro made yet and a Xen distro vs Linux since it uses Xen hypervisor to virtualize multiple user environments into lightweight VMs. This distro is a replacement to the VMware or VirtualBox tactics of Project Device PerSec. The other distros it supports within its VMs are Fedora (which is based on Red Hat), Debian, Whonix (which is a security-by-virtualization distro itself), and Windows. It already separates VMs into categories of work, shopping, random, and unsafe. The use of random led to the addition of the general browsing VM of Project Device PerSec. Basically, the host OS isn’t much of a usable OS like your other systems, but instead has you use the VMs for those purposes. Remember the security aspects previously discussed in PERSEC under Virtualization. The use of VMs makes it harder for an attacker to actually attack the host OS and the data on it when s / he attacks the guest OS. The one drawback is that it will have kernel panics if you install it on a system using UEFI vs BIOS. I don’t use Qubes because I can’t, but I really want to purchase a Librem 15 by Pursim with Qubes installed so I can use it as my public system for the moments I have to use my systems in public. Even though Qubes can come preinstalled on a Librem laptop, anyone can download it and install it on their system or a 64GB+ UFD. It’s the easiest and most versatile means of staying secure via virtualization, it’s much lighter than Project Device PerSec, and you can technically install any Linux distro you want as a VM such as Tails and Kali Linux.

TAILS ----------------------------------------------------------------
Tails, or The Amnesic Incognito Live System, is a security- and privacy-focused, Debian-based Linux distro. It’s meant to be ran as a Live disk or UFD so that it can erase all data on it once powered off. The incognito aspect is that it doesn’t save data, the amnesic aspect is that it erases data, and the live system keeps any changes that were made during a session from being saved. That makes it return to the default set-up every boot. It’s meant to be used with Tor to keep all network connections private and secure, the Tor browser, Pidgin chat client with OTR, or off-the-record, end-to-end encrypted instant messaging, I2P as an alternative to Tor, Electrum Bitcoin wallet, and more. Tails also includes myriad encryption tools for every purpose including data partitions, files, instant messaging, emails, networking, and more. It even includes Windows camoflauge to make itself roughly appear like a Windows system for prying eyes, but the support is currently broken in Gnome. The devs are trying to add it back though. Tails is the best privacy-based Linux distro out there with Whonix as a close second. Whonix is closer to Qubes though so it’s not a true rival like FreePTO. 
FreePTO isn’t named as an alternative since support for it has ended. The developers recommended switching to TAILS.

CAINE ----------------------------------------------------------------
CAINE, or Computer Aided INvestigative Environment, is an Ubuntu-based distro for digital forensics. Digital forensics is the act of reactive security to recover and investigate material found in computer devices in response to an incident, which is often used for computer crimes. However, it can also be used for data or system recovery like when you manage to lock yourself out of your system by accidentally disabling your user account on your host OS. CAINE runs as a live system on disk or UFD that uses autopsy (image analysis tool), tinfoleak (Twitter metadata harvester), bulk extractor (email and URL extraction tool), EXIFTool (photo metadata reader and manipulator), Guymager (system image creator), and many of the penetration testing tools used by Kali, but those will be mentioned below. Attackers can use CAINE to retrieve data from a target like investigators can from a suspect. However, it’s a free, popular, open-source forensic-specific distro that’s worth maintaining a copy in case an incident occurs. 
DEFT Linux isn’t named as an alternative since their site is dead and there doesn’t appear to be any indication of whether or not DEFT Linux is still active or not.

KALI LINUX -----------------------------------------------------------
Kali Linux is a Debian-based penetration testing and digital forensics distro that’s very well-known with roots to BackTrack. Penetration testing is the act of offensive security to attack a system or network in order to exploit the vulnerabilities found to test the severity of those vulnerabilities and write a report of the actions taken and security recommendations to patch those vulnerabilities. Let’s start a tangent and explain that skids, or script kiddies, often confuse this for “hacking.” While these are tools that can be generally used for “hacking,” a skid is the type of person that would really use these. Skids are individuals that attempt “hacking” yet don’t understand coding, network engineering, system administration, database management, web development, and more. They’re basically laymen that purchase or obtain security tools made by others for their own purposes and pretend to be “hackers,” while not understanding how easy it is to detect and thwart skid tools. I use “hacking” and “hackers” in quotes because I believe the true definition of hacking is the original and not the 80s Hollywood version of attackers. The original definition of “hacker” was someone that broke down a computer process to better understand how it works and manipulate to do whatever the individual instructed. When it started to be used to define malicious “hackers,” the term cracker was created, yet it failed to replace what the world has perverted of “hackers.”
Kali Linux’s preinstalled tools include but are not limited to Armitago (attack management GUI), nmap (port scanner), Wireshark (packet analyzer), John the Ripper (password cracker), Aircrack-ng (Wi-Fi penetration testing), OWASP ZAP (web app vulnerability scanner), and more. It’s essentially the pre-configured penetration testing distro and it’s had support on multiple Chromebooks, Raspberry Pi, and more. Kali Linux even exists as Kali Linux Nethunter for the Nexus line of Android devices. It’s a custom ROM Nexus Android users can install on their phones and tablets, but we can just as easily install the suite of tools from F-Droid and the Nethunter app from the Kali Linux site. 
Parrot Security OS is an alternative to Kali Linux that’s built on Ubuntu and conducts forensics. However, Parrot Security OS also engages in vulnerability assessment and mitigation and anonymous surfing attempting to be the all-in-one security distro. It’s claimed to be a cloud-oriented penetration testing distro, which is why it also comes with a server / cloud edition alongside its light and full editions. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------

